Edit several articles (#184)
microsoft/VSExtensibility: docs/new-extensibility-model/inside-the-sdk/extension-anatomy.md

---
title: Components of a VisualStudio.Extensibility extension
description: Learn the components of a Visual Studio extension created with the VisualStudio.Extensibility model, and how they interact with each other.
date: 2023-2-6
---

# Components of a VisualStudio.Extensibility extension

An extension utilizing VisualStudio.Extensibility will have several components that interact together and also with Visual Studio. 

## Extension instance

The starting point for each extension is an instance of `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Extension`. This instance contains the necessary methods for Visual Studio to query services provided by the extension and also provides virtual methods for extension to provide localized resources and extension-owned local services to be shared between the components of the extension.

> For simple extensions that don't require such services, a default implementation will be created by code generators at build time. See `SimpleRemoteCommandSample` extension for such an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is no longer true and can be removed.

> In other cases, such as `MarkdownLinter` extension project will have its own class that derives from `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Extension` to customize certain aspects of the extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extensions must have a class that derives from `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Extension. See `MarkdownLinter` (add link) for an example implementation.
```
